# facial-alignment
This notebook presents a method for achieving efficient millisecond facial alignment with a cascade of gradient boosted trees


For this project we were asked to design a system that could align a set of 68 facial landmarks to unseen face images. I designed my system using an ensemble of gradient boosted trees that uses binary features to split samples at each of the tree’s nodes (Sullivan & Kazemi, 2014). A binary feature is a simple test that can be applied to a set of images - choose two pixels, if pixel one is greater than pixel two return true. The method also runs over several stages, at each stage a new ensemble of gradient boosted trees is generated along with a new set of 400 binary features. These binary features are transformed in relation to the current prediction of the face shape (Sullivan & Kazemi, 2014). The aim of the algorithm is to minimise the sum of squared errors over all training samples whilst avoiding overfitting.
To develop on work seen in other papers, I made several novel adjustments: the feature transform used between stages and the use of different patch sizes to perform the binary feature tests (i.e. a 3x3 pixel patch). In this paper I will discuss and justify each step of my model including all pre-processing steps and optimisation techniques. I also highlight the failure cases in my model and offer potential solutions to address them. I conclude with a short summary of a method for face segmentation, along with a method for applying basic graphical effects.
